1) What is Operating system?
Operating System lies in the category of system software. It basically manages all the resources of the computer. An operating system acts as an interface between the software and different parts of the computer or the computer hardware. The operating system is designed in such a way that it can manage the overall resources and operations of the computer. It is a fully integrated set of specialized programs that handle all the operations of the computer. It controls and monitors the execution of all other programs that reside in the computer, which also includes application programs and other system software of the computer. Examples of the operating system are Windows, Linux, Mac OS, etc.

2) Types of Operating system?
There are two types of operating systems
1)System software 
2)Application software
System software: The software which is used to run the application
ex: linux, centos, macos
Application software: Which is used to perform the specific task
with out system software application software will not be present

3)what is linux distribution?
A Linux distribution (often abbreviated as distro) is an operating system made from a software collection that is based upon the Linux kernel and, often, a package management system. Linux users usually obtain their operating system by downloading one of the Linux distributions, which are available for a wide variety of systems ranging.
some of the linux distributions are:
Rocky linux
Debian
Suse linux
Raspbian

4) What are linux commands?
Linux is a Unix-Like operating system. All the Linux/Unix commands are run in the terminal provided by the Linux system. This terminal is just like the command prompt of Windows OS. Linux/Unix commands are case-sensitive. The terminal can be used to accomplish all Administrative tasks. This includes package installation, file manipulation, and user management. Linux terminal is user-interactive. The terminal outputs the results of commands which are specified by the user itself. Execution of typed command is done only after you press the Enter key.

5) Explain about linux?
Just like Windows, iOS, and Mac OS, Linux is an operating system. In fact, one of the most popular platforms on the planet, Android, is powered by the Linux operating system. An operating system is software that manages all of the hardware resources associated with your desktop or laptop. To put it simply, the operating system manages the communication between your software and your hardware. Without the operating system (OS), the software wouldn’t function.